https://www.heise.de/ix/heft/Handy-Dressur-3491363.html
Eine einfache Alternative ist die App Termux. Die quelloffene Anwendung unter GPL3-Lizenz stellt zunächst eine Terminal-Emulation für Android zur Verfügung, wie es viele im Play Store gibt. Darüber hinaus bauen die Entwickler ihre App jedoch immer stärker zu einer Linux-Umgebung mit einfach zu nutzenden Schnittstellen zum darüberliegenden Android aus.

Die erste Hürde ist an dieser Stelle die Standardtastatur von Android: In der Konsole von Termux kann man sich wie auf der Linux-Konsole am PC sehr komfortabel bewegen, allerdings fehlen der Android-Tastatur viele der dazu notwendigen Tasten (Pfeiltasten, Strg, Alt …). In vielen Fällen reicht es, die Termux-Konsole vom PC aus fernzusteuern (dazu gleich mehr); dennoch ist es sinnvoll, eine geeignetere Tastatur zu installieren. 

Die einfachste Art des Fernzugriffs zum Skripten besteht in einer SSH-Verbindung über das lokale Netz. Dazu muss zunächst der SSH-Server auf dem Handy installiert werden:
apt install openssh


https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2818761/what-are-the-difference-between-cygwin-on-windows-and-real-unix-environment

Cygwin is mainly a POSIX emulator - where POSIX is some lowest common denominator of UNIX and other systems. This makes it possible to have cleanly written POSIX applications running on Windows.

You will find all things that are specified in POSIX (like the filesystem hierarchy, /proc filesystem, signals, sockets) in cygwin as well and it will behave within the POSIX specs. But as lots of things are unspecified in POSIX, it will not be 100% like any other real Unix system.

For example, on most UNIX systems, you can delete a file while it is open (which will make it a temporary file without name which will be deleted when the last user closes it). Windows does not allow this (and POSIX does not mandate it either); so on Cygwin you will have Windows file semantics (you cannot delete a file while it is open).

Cygwin just has a subset of the functionality of a real Unix OS and there are certain things which you need to know about the Unix OS that cygwin will not tell you.

 It depends what you need to be able to do on a unix machine. As it has a different file system and doesn't have the same directory structure as Windows. For example there isn't a 'Program Files' in Unix, and you may need to know where a lot of files are situated, which you will not find out with cygwin. Though I do agree, if you don't want to install another OS on your machine, you can install it in a Virtual machine, or to simply use it every now and then you could simply use a liveCD
